 1. Divide the active and inactive set of nodes.
 Setting up the data Path:
 ------------------------
 2. Base Station will send Forwarder_Req_Mesg to its one hop neighbors.
 3. All the active nodes that receive this message from BS will set their forwarder
  	as the base station.
 4. After setting their forwarder, each activ node will send the Forwarder_Req_Mesg
 	to its corresponding one hop neighbors which are at a 
 	greater distance from the base station than the current node.
 5. This process continues for all the remaining active nodes.
 6. This completes setting of the data path from each and every active node.
 
Configuration of Monitors:
--------------------------- 
 7.Configuration of monitors will happen in two stages(namely First and Second).
 8.In the first stage , all the active nodes which are at even hop distance from the base
   station are considered for configuring the monitors.
 9.In the second stage , all the active nodes which are at odd hop distance from the base
   station and not having a monitor are considered for configuring the monitors.
   
 Process of configuring in the first stage:
 --------------------------------------------  
 10.Every active node will send a Neighbor_Req_Mesg to its forwarder.
 11.The forwarder of that node inturn replies with a Neighbor_Reply_Mesg message containing
 	its one hop neighbors and its forwarder.
 12.Once the sender receives this message, it configures the forwarders forwarder 
 	from that message and finds the set of inactive nodes common to itself and its 
 	forwarder. Let the set be named 'CommonSet'.
 13.The sender then sends the Monitor_Req_Mesg to all the nodes in the Common Set containing
 	its forwarder and forwarders forwarder.	
 14.All the active nodes which are in CommonSet will ignore this message.
 15.The inactive nodes in CommonSet will reply with Monitor_Agree_Mesg with the following info.
 	a) If the sender and its forwarder are only its one hop neighbors then it sets a field in the 
 	packet "No of Links" to 1.
	 b) If the sender ,its forwarder and its forwarders forwarder are its one hop neighbors then it sets a field in the 
 	packet "No of Links" to 2.
 	c) If either of these two cases do not occur, it will ignore the message.
  	  	
 16. Each time the sender receives Monitor_Agree_Mesg , it will compare the "No of Links"
     and whichever has the highest value will be set as the monitor 
 	 The sender waits for a fixed duration of time to receive Monitor_Agree_Mesg before 
 	 sending the notification message.
 17.The sender now sends a Monitor_Notification_Mesg to all its one hop neighbors
    informing the nodes about its monitor, its forwarder and no of link covered by the monitor
    Now three cases arise:
    If the receiving node is a forwarder of the sender -
    ---------------------------------------------------
    If the "No of Links" is 2 , then it implies that the receiver and its forwarder are also monitored
    by the same monitor. Hence it sets the same node as its monitor for the link between
    itself and its forwarder.
    If the "No of Links" is 1 , then it implies that the sender and receiver are only monitored
    by the monitor. Hence it ignores the message.
    If the receiving node is an inactive node and is not the monitor -
    -----------------------------------------------------------------
    It ignores the message.
    
    If the receiving node is inactive node and is the monitor  -
    -----------------------------------------------------------
    If the "No of Links" is 2 ,then it adds the the sender,sender's forwarder and 
    sender's forwarder's forwarder to its list of monitored nodes. 
    If the "No of Links" is 1 , then it adds the the sender and sender's forwarder to its list of monitored nodes.
    
 Process of configuring in the Second stage:
 --------------------------------------------      
 18. The procedure for configuring the monitors in second stage is same as that of 
 	 first stage, except for the following changes
 	 a. It is run for the active nodes which are at odd hop distance from the BaseStation
 	 b. Only if the monitor is not already configured.   
    
 	 
Design choices or Considerations:
---------------------------------
 1.To choose one among the CommonSet, a node has two ways of doing
 	 a. Randomly choose one among them as Monitor
 	 b. or Check if whichever node has highest number of links covered.
 	     This is not feasible as we may need to get many messages flowing .
 
 2.Once a node gets monitor Req message, it will wait for certain period of time to receive 
   any Monitor request from other nodes as well. After collecting all the monitor request messages,
   node has two ways of selecting the nodes for which it will be acting as monitor
     a. randomly choose MAX_MONITORED_NODE nodes from all the requests received.
     b. Select the nodes that can be maximum covered  and reply for them.
     
 3. See the trade off of selecting a monitor for max links of 2 (3 nodes)or maxlinks of 4 (6 nodes)
 
 4. Repeat the selection of monitors for MAGIC_NUMBER (3)  of times, as the nodes being monitored are
    chosen randomly, it is possible that a node might not get any monitor at all.As the random function is 
    probabilistic fucntion, even after infinite number of tries, a node may still not get a monitor.
    so instead of trying just once, make second attempt or the third attempt.
   
 5.switch between even and odd 
 
 
 Tasks:
 ---------
 
 1.Change random function properly taking seed
 2.Include four way handshake for monitor configuration.
 3.Monitor configuration phases 2 and 3 should be independent and should not be synchronized.
 4.The simulation time should be reduced.
 5.Have the timer depending on the size of the packet.
 
 
 Datapacket forwarding:
 ----------------------
 1.Whenever a node receieves a Datapacket,before forwarding the packet,
   it adds its node id as the previous hop.This broadcasted packet can be
   received by Monitor node,Active Node and Inactive node
   
   On the receiver side:
   -------------------
   If the packet is received by
   
   Monitor node:
   ------------
   1.Monitor node will not send an ACK as it is just overhearing
   2.Check if the previous hop is by one of its Monitored nodes
   3.If so, add the data packet into respective link queue.
   4.If not just drop the packet.
   5.After adding the data into queue, start a timer with enough
    time so that the node's forwarder can forward the data. Within this
    time if the data is not received monitor has to forward the data 
    through some other node.
   6.If the monitor node receives another packet with the same
     packet id,sent by another monitored nodes, remove the data from
     the queue.
 
   Active Node:
   ------------
   1.Check if the previous hop is one of its neighbors, farther
     than the current node's distance to base station
   2.If not, drop the packet.
   3.If so,check if the packet is present in the sentqueue of the nodes
     if sent, drop the packet, else forward the packet
   4. Add the packet to sentQueue.
   
   
   Inactive node:
   --------------
   Does nothing
    
 
 Monitor configuration
 ---------------------
 Two ways of chosing a node to send MONITOR_REQ_MESG
 1.Out of the common neighbors of the forwarder, chose one node randomly and send MONITOR_REQ_MESG
 solution:
 	1.The node that receives MONITOR_REQ_MESG will check if it can accept
 2.Out of the common neighbors of the forwarder, send MONITOR_REQ_MESG to all the qualifying nodes
     
   	 
 To DO : May 21 2009
 1.Maintain a buffer at each node for the data packets it has to send
 2.Implement call backs to retransmit the packet for failure transmissions
 3.Reduce the anttena ragne
 4.test with more nodes
 5.Start the queue size timers at the monitor node for each data packet it overhears
 6.When the timer expires, forward the data thru alternate route
 7.Data is transfered with a Four way handshake
 8.Use topology generators  
   